
Archaeology 
===========

Introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^

According to Marwick (2017a), the field of archaeology has had a long-term
commitment to empirical tests of reproducibility by returning to excavation and
survey sites, but has only recently started to make progress in testing
reproducibility of statistical and computational results.  As in many other
fields, data sharing has had increased attention over the past decade and
sharing code and analytical materials only over the last few years.  As noted by
Marwick (2018), the Journal of Archaeological Science adopted a "data
disclosure" policy in 2013 and author guidelines were updated only in 2018 to
encourage sharing of "software, code, models, algorithms, protocols, methods and
other useful materials related to the project."

Open access to archeological data is sometimes problematic due to cultural
sensitivities or issues of ownership (copyright or international stakeholders)
and impact of exposure (e.g., risks of looting).  Data publishing is also
limited due to costs (key discipline repositories are fee-based) and researcher
motivations. Community norms do not encourage/reward data and code publishing
and no journals require archaeologists to make code and data available by
default.  Discipline-specific repositories include the Archaeological Data
Service, the Archaeological Record (tDAR), and Open Context.

Marwick (2017a) outlines a set of basic principles to improve computational
reproducibility in archaeological research. These are similar to guidelines
provided in other fields: 

* Make data and code openly available 
* Publish only the data used in the analysis 
* Use a programming language to write scripts for analysis and visualization 
* Use version control 
* Document and share the computational environment 
* Archive in online repositories that issue persisted identifiers 
*  Use open licenses

Marwick and the archaeology community have adopted the concept of "research
compendium" refer to data/code packages. This concept originated with Gentleman
and Temple Lang (2004): "We introduce the concept of a compendium as both a
container for the different elements that make up the document and its
computations (i.e. text, code, data,...), and as a means for distributing,
managing and updating the collection."

Marwick (2017a) describes a specific case study to illustrate his principles for
reproducibility and demonstrate the research compendium concept:

* https://github.com/benmarwick/1989-excavation-report-Madjedbebe
* http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1297059 
* Using a combination of R + knitr/Rmarkdown + Github + Docker + Figshare 
* Licenses: CC0 for data, MIT for code 
* Figshare was selected because of either the fee to publish in discipline repositories or technical limitations integrating with Github.

Marwick (2017a) suggests that R is widely used by archaeologists "who share code
with their publications" in part because it is free, widely used in academic
research including statistics and includes support for experimental packages.
He selected Git because commits can be used to indicate exact version of code
used during submissions (note, started with a private repository that was opened
after publication).  He selected Docker because of convenience, building his
image based on the existing rOpenSci image.

He found that the primary issue is the time required to learn the various tools
and recommends incentivizing training in and practice of reproducible research.
He also recommends changing editorial standards of journals by requiring
submission of "research compendia".


Education/training/outreach 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Archaeology community has organized "reproducible research" Carpentry
workshops and contributed to the open source curriculum. For example:

* `Transparent and Open Archeological Research Using R
  <https://benmarwick.github.io/2019-04-10-saa/>`_
* `Using R and Related Tools for Reproducible Research in Archaeology
  <https://www.practicereproducibleresearch.org/case-studies/benmarwick.html>`_

Example research compendia
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Climate change stimulated agricultural innovation and exchange across Asia
<https://github.com/bocinsky/guedesbocinsky2018>`_

This research compendium has been published by d’Alpoim Guedes and Bocinsky via
a combination of Github and Zenodo. The paper, compendium, and data are each
published as separate citable artifacts. The data package includes all raw
(downloaded) and derived data generated by the analysis (~3GB). The code is
packaged as an R package. The environment is provided via a Dockerfile that adds
packages on top of the rocker/geospatial:3.5.1 image.  The image has been pushed
to Dockerhub and is therefore immediately re-runnable.

The authors provide multiple methods of re-running the analysis: by cloning and
running the Github repository locally, via the published Docker image, or by
building and running the Docker image locally.  The primary entrypoint is a
single R-Markdown script.

Data is downloaded from mulple sources during exection. 

* The R FedData package is used to dynamically donwload data published from the NOAA Global Historical Climatology Network based on spatial constriants
* Instrument data publised vi NOAA FTP server (`URL
  <ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/paleo/contributions_by_author/mann2008/instrument.zip>`_)
* An Excel spreadsheet published as supplemental data vi *Science* (`URL
  <http://www.sciencemag.org/content/suppl/2013/03/07/339.6124.1198.DC1/Marcott.SM.database.S1.xlsx>`_)
* They also use data from The Digital Archaeological Record (tDAR) (requires authentication)
* Elevation data via the Google Elevation API

This compendium suggests the following use cases:

* Support for rocker-project images
* Ability for researchers to dynamically and programmatically register immutable published datasets  
* Support for authenticated data sources and 
* Ability to register data from FTP services
* Ability to store arbitrart credential information (e.g., in Home)
* Support for projects where Github is the active working environment
* Support for re-using the Github README for Tale description
* Association and display of citation information for associated materials
* Automatic citation of source data, where possible
* Separate licenses for code and data

Additional Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following are examples of "research compendia" from Archaeology:

* https://github.com/benmarwick/1989-excavation-report-Madjedbebe
* http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1297059
* https://github.com/bocinsky/guedesbocinsky2018
* https://github.com/bocinsky/Bocinsky_et_al_2016
* https://github.com/bocinsky/Bocinsky_Varien_2017
* https://github.com/benmarwick/kwakmarwickaas2015

Marwick (2018) reports on three pilot studies exploring data sharing in
archaeology.  He discusses the ethics of data sharing due to work  with local and indigenous
communities and other stakeholders and describes archaeology as a "restricted
data-sharing and data-poor field."



References
^^^^^^^^^^

Archaeology Data Service/Digital Antiquity 2011 Guides to Good Practice.
Electronic document, http://guides.archaeologydataservice.ac.uk/

Journal of Archaeological Science 2018 Guide for Authors. Journal of
Archaeological Science. Electronic document;
https://www.elsevier.com/journals/journal-of-archaeological-science/0305-4403/guide-for-authors
(via wayback)

Kansa, Eric C., and Kansa, Sarah W. 2013 Open Archaeology: We All Know That a 14
Is a Sheep: Data Publication and Professionalism in Archaeological
Communication. Journal of Eastern Mediterranean Archaeology and Heritage Studies
1 (1):88–97

Marwick, B. J. (2017a) Computational Reproducibility in Archaeological Research:
Basic Principles and a Case Study of Their Implementation. Archaeol Method
Theory (2017) 24: 424. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10816-015-9272-9

Marwick, B. et al. (2017b) Open science in archaeology. SAA Archaeological
Record, 17(4), pp. 8-14.

Marwick (2017c) Using R and Related Tools for Reproducible Research in
Archaeology. In Kitzes, J., Turek, D., & Deniz, F. (Eds.) The Practice of
Reproducible Research: Case Studies and Lessons from the Data-Intensive
Sciences. Oakland, CA: University of California Press.
https://www.practicereproducibleresearch.org/case-studies/benmarwick.html

Marwick, B., & Birch, S. 2018 A Standard for the Scholarly Citation of
Archaeological Data as an Incentive to Data Sharing. Advances in Archaeological
Practice 1-19. https://doi.org/10.1017/aap.2018.3
https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/KSRUZ (code/data)

Marwick, B., Boettiger, C., & Mullen, L. (2017d). Packaging data analytical work
reproducibly using R (and friends). The American Statistician
https://doi.org/10.1080/00031305.2017.1375986

Nüst, Daniel, Carl Boettiger, and Ben Marwick. 2018. "How to read a research
compendium." arXiv:1806.09525

Open Digital Archaeology Textbook . https://o-date.github.io/draft/book/

