2018-10-22
==========
Kacper, Adam, Bryce, Mihael, Tommy, Craig

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Discussing UX report:
  * KK: Do we have consensus on non-UI issues
      * Copy on launch
          * KK yes; MH yes; Bryce yes; Craig yes; TT yes; AB yes
          * Not present: SW, IT, DP
          * Questions: 
              * TT: Are we copying the data. KK yes, it's a "cp -r"
              * MH: It's the equivalent of git checkout
      * Are we following repo2docker model? i.e. there are well-specified files to define environment changes
          * KK yes; MH yes; Bryce yes; TT yes; AB yes; Craig yes
      * The data directory is at the same level of the workspaces
          * MH: yes; KK yes; TT yes; 
          * Bryce: not sure; AB not sure; CW not sure
          * Comments:
              * MH: Workspace contains code and configuration files
                  * I'm in favor of input/output/scratch
              * MH: Wants to formalize the model a bit "on paper"
* Follow-up call with Kacper, Craig, Tommy:
    * CW: Today a DataONE user could use WT to analyze data
        * "Analyze in Whole Tale" v "Launch in WT"
        * TT: "Launch in WT" with no tale
            * Register, create tale, launch it
            * Matt doesn't want the button into Production until we have a sustainability plan
        * CW: What does the change look like?
        * CW: How does it roll out to member nodes?
            * TT: member nodes need to update metacat UI
            * Flag to show button will be off, but could be enabled
        * CW: How hard is it to get a dev stack up and running for a single member node?
        * TT: 
            * Need mockup
            * Small loading screen with spinner
            * We already do some of this (spinner from compose)
            * KK: Can we use the job model? Endpoint uses Job and route uses Job status?
                * We can just run Jobs in Girder (e.g., no gwvolman)
                * TT: Registration system uses notification stream
            * KK: We can pipe the notification to the job status itself.  The job has a status -- poll it and display progress.
                * Endpoint gives you a job model
            * TT:
                * Can reuse progress bar, but will need to come up with a scheme for calculating progress.
        * 


Updates
-------
* Adam:
  * No updates from ND 
* Bryce:
  * No updates
* Craig:
  * No updates for dev other than UI/UX review
  * Planning related to tasks that are not bound to new UI  
  * https://github.com/whole-tale/whole-tale/issues/43
* Kacper:
  * Reviewed Mikes code, added some comments
  * Attempted to write and run some tests, but ran out of time when spinning up new environemnt (next)
  * A PR/merge will be sent in asap
  * Would like to add functionality to ingest dataverse data
* Mihael:
  *
* Tommy: 
  * Fixed a bug where packages were getting incorrect permissions (the orcid should not have been https)
  * Added an introjs to the publish modal
  * Transitioned (and added) some tasks to zenhub
  * Working on Tale Importing documentation (UI mockups are first, then backend tasks (eg what do we save, etc))
  * On the Stack:
      * More publishing testing
      * Send in DataONE branch with "Launch in Whole Tale" button
      * Commit the Tale import route
      * Fix bug in publishing modal where package URL only shows the identifier/pid
