.. _20180611-notes:

2018-06-11
==========
Craig (offline), Damian, Sebastian, Ian, Thomas, Bryce, Michael

Agenda
------
* v0.3 release
  * v0.3 build of all components
  * Deployed to https://dashboard.stage.wholetale.org
  * User data migrated from GridFS to WebDav
    * Since "Data" should be read-only and "Workspace" doesn't exist, all user data was migrated to "Home"
* Updates

Updates
-------
* Craig:  Released v0.3 of all services, now deployed on staging environment https://dashboard.stage.wholetale.org
  * Will apply hot-fix for Workspace issue later today or tomorrow
  * Still need to update Logan's tales (due to migration)
  * Next priorities -- integration testing/documentation; scripting the release process
* Sebastian: Working on instantiating multiple tales at once through the new UI
    * Question for Kacper: Can we add a LAUNCHING constant to the InstanceStatus class on the backend?
* Damian:
    * Rewriting Browse Tales UI. Filtering/searching matching new design now. Created list view for tales.
    * Moving to Compose editor

* Ian: Allocated time for dashboard development with the scrum team
* Thomas: Created the file referencing any files in Globus, just about done with generating a dockerfile from the recipe and image, also did    some work on the publishing modal dialog.
  Question for Kyle: Is there a way to get a file checksum from the Globus API?
* Bryce: No update. Haven't been working actively on WholeTale.
* Mihael: writing code for globus transfers
