2018-09-24
==========
Kacper, Craig, Damian, Ian, Kyle, Mike, Tommy

Agenda
------
* Updates
* [36-month plan]
  * [Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P_-bY2VvePV5JzWVAC8I0hT5NiPS3OSv69zkJPxU6Mw/edit#)
  * [Gantt](https://app.smartsheet.com/b/home?lx=VV9csC_cAAubmY1aVS2KnQ)
  * [Workspaces](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pl9FwVNeXyVVTccXLoTIeXsViWflbPpoQ5DLY44g5cw/edit)
  * [Development process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NDpwM7SnDTb9NNaQU7W6p-53FfGboUWHZNZMsIjbysE/edit#)
* Discussion of Roadmap and Gantt
  * KC: Need to clarify Forking, may not be a priority
    * KK: Workspaces are a webdav folder with a given tale ID.
      * Anyone with access would be able to modify
    * CW: What about "Remix" as a short-term solution?
      * Can we implement remix without forking? MH/KK: Yes
      * KK: Remixing is just taking the initial parameters
    * MH: Forking was a different idea. Each time you open a tale, you get a local copy.
    * CW: If I remix, can I edit the code?
      * KK: Remixing is taking the data without the notebook
      * CW: Remixing is on 3 dimensions -- code, data, environment
      * KK: We get 2 out of 3 with remix, the 3rd with forking
      * MH: Remixing is creating a tale with this data
    * KC:  We have a good use case with Logan
      * ~5 models that do the same thing, wants to apply to different data
      * KK: Logan's environment already contains the code
      * KC: Need to define the minimum for the 36 month review
      * MH: This was all related to publishing -- the point is to get tales that can be re-opened and re-run
      * TT: I think the original use case was what happens when a user launches a tale from DataONE (it gets 'forked')
  * KC: Discussion of publishing
    * KC: Could we push somewhere else?
    * TT: We have other DataONE servers that aren't production
      * Some time ago, we were told that this would never be published to DataONE production
      * This was revised to include publishing to DataONE production with the finalized serialization format
    * 


Updates
-------
* Kacper:
  * Reviewed DMS work and deployed in production
  * Development environment -- needs issue 
* Craig:
  * Roadmap and AHM/Workshop output review.
  * Initial contact regarding WT specific carpentries.
* Damian
  * Looked into problem positioning the modals (feedback from Tommy - https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/271)
  * Added ability to launch tale from view page (https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/211)
  * Looking at how to validate local storage state
  * Switched to one-week sprints, nothing for WT
  * Added new public Slack channel to discuss UI testing on Ember
* Ian:
  * Started looking at roadmap, will provide feedback 
* Kyle:
  * Read roadmap document 
  * Concerned about publication not being in 36 month release
  * Concerned about testing -- Selenium is expensive 
    * CW: NDS uses Protractor/Selenium. It's worked, has been fragile, but seems worth the effort
    * KK: We at least need a smoke test 
    * KK: The point of tests is to make sure things work during development and release.
  * Would be good to go into more detail on some things.
* Mike:
    * Working on dynamically adding data to a session
    * Comment on UI testing
        * Used something similar to Selenium, which they found useful
* Tommy:
    * Out last week
    * Working on persisting the publish modal (linked in smartsheet)
    * Would like to add 'doi' field to the Tale structure (https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/issues/167)
    * Reviewed dashboard issues & closed/edited now non-relevant issues (either not applicable after the AHM or already completed)
    * To Do: 
        * Create/configure a publishing branch
            * Eventually move my personal deployement over to probably-cattle
            * Make dev2 the publishing deployment after
        * Can we close https://github.com/whole-tale/whole-tale/issues/38 ?
            * CW: Please don't until we get confirmation from PI/stakeholders on Workspaces
    * Discussion of development instances:
        * CW: Let's try the compose environment first
        * KK: Can also use Nebula, which is unstable but available