2018-10-01: Development meeting
===============================
Kacper, Ian, Tommy, Adam, Damian, Sebastian, Bryce, Craig, Mike

Agenda
------
* [Tale Workspaces](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pl9FwVNeXyVVTccXLoTIeXsViWflbPpoQ5DLY44g5cw/edit)


Updates
-------
* Kacper:
  * Finalized development environment [PR](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_deploy/pull/6)
    * Can't configure local source, but can use your own image (tedious but functional)
  * Worked on design and plan docs with Craig
  * DMS is deployed to dev
* Craig:
  * Design and planning documents
* Damian, Sebastian, Adam:
  * No tasks in this sprint 
  * Need 1-week heads-up to incorporate work into sprints (probably 2 weeks away)
  * Sprints are organized on Monday mornings
* Ian:

* Mike:
  * Q. How are we on the DMS configuration? Seems to be working fine. Encourage people to run previous tales.
  * Initial version done
  * Next -- finishing Globus integration
    * Recursively searching Globus for total size of dataset. Can we skip it?
    * KK: It's not important, just displayed in the widget
    * CW Q. Do we always need to register the entire dataset?
      * MH: DOI is associated with the whole dataset, but within the whole dataset, we refer to individual files.
      * We could do a lazy import -- you don't have the whole size, but you could lazily browse through the source.
      * Today, we import whole datasets. 
    * KK: Dynamically browsing endpoints/datasets would be a significant project.
      * Focus on registering the entire dataset now, dynamic browsing after 36 month review  
* Tommy:
   * Connected the job updates to the UI
   * Down to one broken unit test for adding the `DOI` field to the Tale (part of backgrounding the modal task)
   * Implemented the progress bar-down to adding some styling to it (http://recordit.co/y9P6l5wmG9)
   * Granularizing the file upload progress message
   * Deploy WT stack on probable-cattle and configure GitHub repo/flow to accomidate for this (making dev2 point to the publishing branches on the WT repos, and probable cattle point to my personal repos)
   * Comments on 36 months:
       * Review of deliverables: publishing, adding/removing data from the tale, workspaces, custom environments
       * KK: For publishing, you would get data from the session ID not the involatile data
* Bryce:
  * RO paper
  * Will update tale specification in readthedocs
