2018-08-13: Development meeting
===============================
Kacper, Tommy, Damian, Sebastian, Mike, Craig, Ian

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Tasks that need to be done before 36mo (Craig). Based on [PEP](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/my-drive).
    * Search, Storage APIs within Jupyter, RStudio, etc
        * Will be obsoleted by adding launch functionality from Globus Publish and DataONE?
          * "Play in WT" button prototyped (register data and bring to compose page). TT: Branch with route in `newui`. Need to revisit -- prior work is stale. (Medium risk: no backend support)
    * OAI-ORE filesystem
        * https://bitbucket.org/data-exp-lab/ideals-browser/src/default/
        * Nice to have.
    * Identifier issuing and resolution, including Globus Publication
        * Done via DataONE?
        * Globus has a service to mint identifiers (minid) as an alternative.
    * Document, store, publish in DataONE (Tommy) (**v0.5**)
        * Help needed with:
            * File Browser (tentatively: Adam, will meet Friday)
            * Getting D1 JWT more smoothly (tentatively: Kacper)
            * Run page top widget (Bryce)
            * Kacper to help with getting local environment running and gwvolman components.
        * Testing: UI is incomplete and notifications. Feedback on package itself welcome.
    * Globus ingestion wrappers (Mike)
        * 36 mo deliverable. MDF only as proof-of-concept that WT can support other indices.
    * Dashboard blockers:
        * [https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/238](Tale Run view missing top bar with Edit Tale Info / Publish buttons)
        * [Can't upload large files](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/228)
        * [Multiple issues with Dashboard on Firefox](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/202)
* Tasks that we would like to have asap but should be delivered in PY4-5
    * Indexing, remixing of frontends (Needs UI (Proposal D5.1.1 indicates Y4 deliverable)
      * Need UI team to provide estimates 
* Automated testing
    * Postman + Selenium
* Who's going where? 
  * Whole Tale AHM 9/11-12 at Big-10 Center
  * [Reproducibility Workshop](https://wholetale.org/2018/06/26/working-group-workshop.html) 9/13-14


Updates
-------
* Kacper:
    * Roadmap
    * OpenRefine

* Bryce:
    * Looked into why data registration is failing

* Craig:
    * Reviewed the project requirements

* Mike:
    * Registering data from Globus, refactoring registration framework

* Tommy:
    * Investigated 1/13th file dying during dataone upload. (Fixed this morning)
    * Fixed the issue where files above 1mb cannot be uploaded to DataONE
    * Pushed code that supports publishing tales with data from DataONE
    * Fixed a bug where prod was using cn.dataone for user's jwt
    * Updated ui so that it's 1-1 with the backend
    * Pulled publishing stuff out of the repository and created a separate endpoint, `/publish`
    * Checked the status of globus-dataone integration. Still deadlocked

    Backend Publishing Status:
        Publishing works with packages that have DataONE data (Try the `Jupyter Tale Demo` Tale)
        Currently investigating a bug with tales with local files
        Porting to gwvolman so we can use the job watcher
    Frontend Publishing Status: 
        Asked Bryce to help with the compenent on the Run page
        Need to fix OAuth popup (letting the modal know the user signed in-workaround is to refresh the page after the login)
        Make an issue for warning the user that, if they have files above 1GB, they won't be accepted    
    

* Sebastian & Damian:
