.. _20180604-notes:

2018-06-04: Development meeting 
===============================

Kacper, Bryce, Adam, Sebastian, Damian, Mihael, Craig, Tommy

Agenda
------

* Updates

Updates
-------

* Kacper:
    * Deployed new version of `wholetale` plugin enforcing `iframe` field for Tales. [PR#89](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/89)
    * Worked with Craig on migration of user data from GridFS to WebDAV.
    * Started working on userguide describing WT filesystem and their intended use.
* Bryce:
    * No updates right now, plan to work on Publishing in upcoming weeks.
* Craig:
    * Migration process from GridFS to WebDav
    * v0.3 release and deploy to staging
    * Q. Disable Workspace and uploading to Data dir in UI?
        * TASK: create an issue for dashboard: disable uploading outside of Home/Workspace
    * Q. Migrating Logan's tales
        * Accounts are not associated in Globus. Treat as separate identities.
    * Publishing WG brief report
        * Discussion of licensing (e.g., default CC0)
        * It's supported in Girder for items and could easily be extended
        * From our point of view it's simple -- they just need to decide
        * Bryce: It's implicit in the publishing flow
            * The tool will default to CC0 or Sharealike
        * Q. Is the license part of the tale or the published object?
            * If we assume the license belongs to DataOne/Globus, then we don't care in Girder
* Damian:
    * Working on communication between UI and iframes
    * Fixing styling issues
    * Started a new sprint oriented around new UI this week
* Mihael:
    * Wrote a design doc about using variuos ways of using Globus (Personal vs Server endpoint) for transfering data into WT
* Sebastian:
    * New sprint takes this week
    * Will be on for the full three weeks
    * Migrated most of the tasks from the UI google docs sheet into GitHub issues
* Tommy:
    * Have Globus file working
    * Can register data from generic member nodes (Just needs an endpoint to the member node) [PR#91](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/91)
    * Dashboard changes for generic member nodes
    * Documented publishing
