2019-02-18: Development Planning
================================
Kacper, Mike L, Craig, Mike H, Kyle, Adam, Tim

Development planning
--------------------

* Updates
* Discussions
    * Discussion of Kubernetes storage drivers
        * NFS model seems suitable -- but with girderfs
        * We are happy to use the existing Pod lifecycle
        * We just need storage to move with the Pod
        * Need to handle credentials
        * MH: 
            * https://itnext.io/how-to-create-a-custom-persistent-volume-plugin-in-kubernetes-via-flexvolume-part-1-f6d9d966e123
            * There are basically two methods: Container Storage Interface - this looks like the GO based solution and documented at https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/blob/master/spec.md#getplugininfo 
            * Then there's FlexVolume, which has a POSIX command line interface
    * Discussion of reproducibility round-tripping
        * Ana's use case: A researcher has published a Tale, the claim is challenged, someone else tries to run it to see it. Share back their Tale, share it for comment.
        * For example, some package has changed (apt package, etc) that causes different results. 
        * Example: [Registered replication](https://katherinemwood.github.io/post/first-rr/)
        * KK: Sharing/ACLs will partially address this scenario, but we lack a mechanism for feedback and this is largely out of scope.
        * TM: What happens to my original results if I share a Tale with someone? 
            * CW: Note discussion of results file as part of provenance discussion.
        * Discussion of Home directory as volatile based on the sustainability of the project.


Updates
-------

* Kacper:
    * A lot fixes for an upcoming v0.6 release
    * Preparing for EAB Review on Thursday
    * Will release rc2 today/tommorow
* Craig:
    * Development tasks
        * Deploy staging.wholetale.org on Chameleon
        * [Test plan issue template](https://github.com/whole-tale/wt-design-docs/issues/new?template=test_plan.md)
        * [Smoke test issue template](https://github.com/whole-tale/wt-design-docs/issues/new?template=smoke_test.md)
        * Release testing and PR review
    * Non-development tasks
        * EAB preparation
        * RR workshop coordination
        * TACC PY4 planning (remote execution at TACC and UChicago)
    * Todo
        * Screencasts
* Mike H:
    * Experimenting with deploying girder on k8s
    * Investigated k8s' storage drivers
* Mike L:
    * Testing for v0.6, following the test plan
    * Wired up DELETE /dataset endpoint ([#386](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/pull/386))
    * Many, many tiny PRs in prep for v0.6
        * Chrome thoroughly tested
        * More Firefox testing still needed
        * Safari / Edge testing would be nice too
* Adam:
    * no updates
* Tim:
    * What are the prospects for **reproducibility round-tripping**?  I.e., support for researcher B who has trouble reproducing the work of researcher A (that was published as a Tale) to share his or her attempt to reproduce A's results (as another Tale derived from the first one) back with researcher A, so that A can help spot the problem and possibly fix or update the original Tale so that it really is reproducible (or reproducible again).
