2019-12-02: Development Meeting
===============================

Craig, Tommy, Tim, Mike H, Elias, Mike L

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Discussion
    * v0.9 status 
        * User settings (merged)
            * Zenodo - done
            * DataONE - [open issue](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/573)
        * Register data from Zenodo (merged)
        * Publish to Zenodo (merged)
        * Publish refactor 
            * Backend (merged)
            * UI 
                * https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/570
                * https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/571
        * Run/import from Zenodo (in progress)
        * Extra v2 fix (need to issue PR)
        * Tapis integration (needs merge)
        * Bdbag integration (PR issued)
    * C2Metadata plan
        * Stata and Matlab support
        * "WT Prov" (=strace) + YW + C2Metadata = Comprehensive provenance model (CPM)
            * For now, looking strace + YW
        * Discussion of "queries"
        * Discussion of formats
            * Export to DataONE would require outputting everything in a way DataONE understands
            * Facts: http://try.yesworkflow.org/ 
            * Argument for JSON-LD format.  If you want someone else to write an adapter -- are they doing Prolog or parsing JSON?
            * This means that we're defining a JSON schema for CPM?
        * Discussion of CPM and DataONE
            * DataONE Matlab project was able to capture some of this information
            * Tim: Matlab script + YW + D1 Matlab could output/query useful info
        * Tommy can look at DataONE model and its relation to outputs from above
        * How is CPM different than W3C Prov (abstract)?
            * W3C is more abstract and therefore ambiguous
            * "CPM" is intended to be concrete, supporting specific queries
            * Concrete models (have schemas, but tend to be practical):
                * YesWorkflow facts
                * Sciunit -- sqlite DB
                * ReproZip 
                * NoWorkflow -- more of an implementation
                * DataONE/Metacat is just Prov-ONE implemented in the resource map.
        * How is CPM different than Prov-ONE?
            * YW already has things that aren't supported in Prov-ONE
                * Directions, flow of data, nesting of workflows
        * Discussion of codebooks and how we could generate them
            * 

* Actions:
    * Craig - setup VM for Mike H's demo
    * Craig - re-test DataONE on master
    * Tommy - Test DataONE

Updates
-------

* Craig:
    * UTK tale

* Tommy:
    * PR Reviews
    * Extra /v2/ fix
    * Had some downtime with fires (back home now)

* Tim:
    * Working on comparing the provenance models of ReproZip and Sciunit.  Will be making a series of increasingly complex examples, each started by a run.sh script, showing what events and relationships each captures.
    * Will be working on Linux running on metal, then in VMs and in Docker.  Plan to share computing environments via Ansible and Docker images made using Ansible.
    * This will be the start of a comprehensive provenance model for WT.
    * The WT provenance model needs to incorporate, and span, both script-external (system) observables (what strace can see), and script-internal observables, e.g. what C2Metadata can see.
    * The current plan is to YesWorkflow and associated concepts to drive our modeling and prototyping of script-internal provenance, with the expectation that C2Metadata will fit roughly into the same place as YesWorkflow, both conceptually and in the implementation of the software.
    * Repo: https://github.com/whole-tale/wt-prov-model

* Mike L:
    * Dockerized new UI rewritten in Angular
        * Added [Dockerfile](https://github.com/bodom0015/wt-ng-dash/blob/master/Dockerfile) to Angular repo
        * Created [PR to deploy-dev](https://github.com/whole-tale/deploy-dev/pull/28) to deploy new UI alongside existing EmberJS UI
        * :tada: Angular UI should be ready for preliminary testing :tada:

* Elias:
    * PR for bdbag needs review
