2019-09-16: Development Meeting
===============================
Kacper, Tommy, Elias, Joe, Craig, Mike L

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Discussion
    * Elias' [Agave BDBag integration design](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S3daVEJWDNI4XsP3wS_Mf_AFmURjpDUc7LL-NfAjJiA/edit)
        * Craig to take action to ask Kyle about bdbag config
    * v0.8 status
        * [Run button enabled while tale starting](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/issues/528)
        * Still need to check manual testing steps
        * KK: When launching a new instance and the image build fails, the error is not reflected in the instance status.
            * Error isn't propagated from build image
    * PI priorities
        * Publishing (to Zenodo) -- in progress, UI/UX work pending
            * Planned for v0.9
            * Publish provider refactor?
            * Blocker: release of v0.8
        * Collaboration/sharing -- need UI/UX input
            * This is next on Kristina's priority list. Ideally, we'll have UI by 9/26
            * Need to consider back-end changes
        * Improved Github integration
    * Tales at Scale
        * Joe availability: Thursday before 3CT or Friday noon-1 CT or after 2:30pm CT.


Updates
-------

* Kacper:
    * Worked on Dataverse [r2d integration](https://github.com/jupyter/repo2docker/pull/739)
    * Met with Kristina, Mike L, Craig - UI/UX mostly related to 3rd party integrations
    * Met with Joe, Mike H, Craig - Tale @ Scale

* Tommy:
    * I'm no longer sick \o/
    * Working on 'Run' button bug.
        * I think I know what's going on
        * In the view route, we return a Tale model [here](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/blob/master/app/routes/run/view.js#L13)
        * One caveat is that we manually fetch the instance and attach it to the Tale model [here](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/blob/master/app/services/api-call.js#L641) before returning it
        * We have two cases:
            * New Tale
                * At this point the instance hasn't been fully created so the status of the instance is 0
            * Existing Tale ('View' is clicked from browse)
                * In this case the instance probably has a status other than 0 (enough time has gone by that the Tale has been fully created)
            * In both cases the instance on the Tale object doesn't change from the initial state obtained in api-call.js
            * Example: If I redirect to the run page after a long period of time (90 seconds) where the instnace is fully created, the button has the correct state (because the instance attached to the Tale model is "fully matured"/instantiated)
        * Need a way to/need to update the instance on a status change
        * Should probably move [this line](https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/blob/master/app/routes/run/view.js#L11) elsewhere too (But I'm not sure if this is breaking anything)

* Elias:
    * Finished first run through of design doc for Tapis v2 bdbag integration.
    * Currently working on Tapis v2 (Agave) integration
    * Needing review: [Add Agave Import Provider PR](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/331)
        * Code has been reviewed by Kacper. Still needs to be test run. Also, waiting for master to be ready to merge new code.

* Craig:
    * Kubernetes helm chart
    * Planning/design discussions
        * Tales at Scale
        * Provenance and repro task group. My current assertions:
            * We must preserve the image or equivalent
            * There is a value in generating information about what's installed (human/machine readable)
                * Ideally restricted to what's used by the code
            * We should create a UI for r2d config (can it be Jupyter compatible?)
            * We need something like the "Reproducible run" or record mode
        * Confirmed PI priorities:
            * Publishing (to Zenodo) -- in progress, UI/UX work pending
            * Collaboration/sharing -- need UI/UX input
            * Improved Github integration
    * Prov/repro task group. My assertions:
        * We must preserve the image or equivalent
        * We need something like the "Reproducible run" or record mode
        * There is a value in generating information about what's installed or was installed during the "reproducible run". Ideally restricted to what's used by the code
        * We should create a UI for r2d config (can it be Jupyter compatible?) 
* Mike L:
    * Discussed UI/UX, changes for publishing to Zenodo and Dataverse
    * Angular refactoring nearing completion
        * Cleaned up all tslint warnings
        * Added sticky footer
        * Restyling things to match brand colors (loading overlay, etc)
        * Next: restyle "Run" button component for multiple views (e.g. catalog and run view)
        * TODO: last few modals, page routes/titles, favicon, LOTS and lots of testing
