2019-02-25: Development
=======================
Mike H, Mike L, Craig, Tommy, Tim
Regrets: Kacper

Development planning
--------------------

* Updates
* Discussions
    * Tommy's Demo 
        * Bug in file selection
        * Entrypoint -- we need to support it or remove it
        * Home shouldn't be here
        * Why Data here? Because you can select a subset of files used
        * Demo of using prov editor during package publishing
        * Publish with DOI
            * CW: What happens if I don't hit publish and want to change things in Whole Tale?
            * TT: There could be a way to save Tale state
        * Demo of manifest.json
            * CW: Question about license
        * Publishing location on metadata
            * TT: There is a URI for the package even without a DOI
        * Discussion of target/licenses: both are still hardcoded in UI
        * MH: About Datasets
            * If the dataset is very large, it may make sense to allow subselect
            * Data manager tracks what's used is true
        * CW: Why have two different selection mechanisms?
            * MH: If the Tale is exploratory, you might not reference all of the datasets that you've selected.
        * Discussion:
            * Whether selection happens before (via Dashboard) or at point of publication
            * MH: Science is a mess -- you don't have it organized up front
                * We should support the "Ball of Mud"
                * You don't rebuild each time.
            * TM: I like the iterative environment, but how likely is it that you can pull out the right stuff -- that it's runnable
                * If you support subselection, how to you know at the point of publication that you've got the right stuff?
                * MH: This is the point of validation
                * CW: But there's been some confusion over where this occurs. 
                * TM: This is the branch model -- branch, delete what shouldn't be in the release, delete what shouldn't be there, now this is the release. If I want to publish a new version of that release, I can start from there, create another version from there.
                    * Trunk is the ball of mud
                * MH: Whether you select or deselect before publishing, you still need to do validation
                    * The ability to start the container from scratch, build the "clean" environment
            * TT: Ties into provenance capture
                * There was the idea of capturing provenance from "run.sh" during the validate step
            * ML: What is the difference between the home folder and the Tale workspace?
    * Tim's case:
        * SKOPE use case:
            * 10s of GB input and output
            * Kyle's PaleoCar example
            * People thought we'd be able to use WT as a processing environment to get data into the right form for use in SKOPE
            * What if users in SKOPE wanted to re-run an analysis or can they see the Tale that represents the re-processing
            * 


Updates
-------

* Craig:
    * Non-development tasks:
        * EAB meeting
            * Need to get more real Tales into system
            * Need to get DataONE and Export done
    * Development tasks:
        * repo2docker integration
            * rstudio-base "WholeTale" breadcrumb -- patch RStudio server
            * CSP_HOSTS for iframes

* Mike H:
    * Still working on Kubernetes storage drivers, but has reached the three weeks. What's next?
    * Q. How long do you think it would take to implement the GirderFS driver?
        * MH: Today, we mount GirderFS on the host and then in the container as a host filesystem
        * New issue -- implement Flexvolume driver for girderfs

* Mike L:
    * Bug fixes for v0.6
    * Looking at breadcrumbs problem 
    * Open PRs:
        * https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/pull/424
        * https://github.com/whole-tale/dashboard/pull/418

* Tim:
    * I can start exercising the system as soon as I get git capability at a bash prompt.
    * Where should I store data used by Tales if the data (consumed and produced) is a few 100 GB in size?
        * https://github.com/openskope/skope-notebooks/blob/master/download_lbda_v2_dataset_from_noaa.ipynb
    
    * What is the expected user experience of repo2docker in Whole Tale?

* Tommy:
    * Craig's note
        * dataone_publishing on Dashboard)
        * gwvolman dataone_publishing 
        * tale_Export girder_wholetale
    * Added Published URL to Tale metadata view so that users don't need to open the publishing modal to see the location
    * Added support for the refactored Workspace & Data structure to File Picker
    * Refactored manifest endpoint to optionally generate a manifest from a list of item IDs
    * Refactored DataONE publishing code to use the manifest endpoint rather than generating the tale yaml
    * When uploading data to DataONE I added a check to make sure the mimetype is supported
    * Fixed a file size format annoyance in the publishing-modal
    * Improved error messages in publishing-modal (using job/result endpoint)
    * Made fixes to DataONE Python Library calls that were renamed during a library ubdate
    * Fixed a bug where duplicate Dataset entries were being added to the manifest
    * Currently writing a doc on all of the publishing features, implementation, and how to test. See it [here](https://hackmd.io/gUqJunz6TFqOhVLIaN-aZA?view)
    * Next:
        * Auto open publishing modal after ORCID login (add queryParam to /run route)
        * Fix file check marks missing in file-picker
        * Auto select Tale files in file-picker (I disabled this because it was confusing with the current bug where you can't see what is selected)
        * Touch bases with Craig about publishing features-what we have and what we want, end goals, scope, etc
        * Discuss replacing parent_dataset with [schema:isPartOf](https://schema.org/isPartOf) or [dc:isPartOf](http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-isPartOf) in `manifest.json`
        * Are we allowing people to select files out of `Home` when publishing? 
            * No
            * Should any files in Home that are used in a Tale get copied to the workspace?
                * Use cases:
                    * User creates a tale and only uses their home directory. The user shares the Tale and the recipient doesn't see anything
                    * User creates a hybrid tale: some registered data, and analysis scripts from home. User makes the Tale public-people can only see the registered data
        