2019-04-15: Development Meeting
===============================
Kacper, Adam, Mihael, Tim, Mike L, Ian

Agenda
------

* updates

Updates
-------

Kacper:
* Fixes related to new Tale schema: Authors are now array instead of string (analyze in WT, exporting)
* PR Reviews
* Working on:
    * 3rd party OAuth integrations (submitted PR to upstream Girder to reuse oauth_login)
    * Adding entrypoints for repo2docker
    * planning (see note from 04/10)
    
Adam:
* Create Tale modal is finished (just the frontend piece)

Mike H:
* Fix bug in the girderfs (caching issue)
* Added an endpoint to drop DMS cache
* Talked to Craig about FlexVolume/CSI integration. Will continue to work on FlexVolume
* Work on deploying entire WT stack on k8s


Mike L:
  * PR for Run view instance id -> tale id
    * Start/stop button on "Run" view
    * Placeholder for starting/stopping/stopped tales
  * PR for minor UX improvements for notification stream widget
    * Show/hide toggle button in navbar
    * Badge displaying unack'd event count
    * Placeholder if you have no events
  * Currently reviewing Tommy's metadata citation PR
  * Craig seems to have mostly handled the review of Mike H's Kubernetes proof-of-concept, but feel free to reach out if you have any questions


Tim:
* Started talking about actual development strategies in Friday provenance call, but only Bertram, Matt, and I were present.
* Proposed we start discussing the conceptual model and implementation design for a common provenance store for a Tale.
* With a common model and store for all provenance related information we may capture, we can develop various means to gather provenance, query/visualize provenance, and export provenance while maintaining loose coupling of these tools.
* Provenance export format(s) need not dictate provenance store schema or technology.
* Need to get the provenance working group off the project critical path.
* I would like to have a provenance store, populated by whatever means, to query and demonstrate visualizations for.
* Question: If I were to provide a capability on the query and visualization side, what are the options for interoperating with a Tale or the WT system as a whole?
* Examples of visualizations that are possible:  http://try.yesworkflow.org
