2020-10-12: Development Meeting
===============================

Tommy, Kacper, Mike L, Mike H, Tim, Craig

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Licensed software and image versions [name=Craig]
    * How to handle licenses and install keys
        * Matlab has private env var required for building
        * Matlab has public/site specific license required at build and runtime
        * Stata has private license required at run time
        * Today:
            * Add build ARGs (not stored in image)
            * Pass values in via `gwvolman` (like registry name/value) during build and run
            * Mount `/licenses` as Docker volume during run
        * KK:
            * Maybe use Docker secrets
                * Build v runtime
    * How to handle multiple versions of image (e.g., Rocker 3.5.1, 4.x; Matlab 2019b, 2020a)
        * KK: Image in Girder should relate to buildpacks
            * Images should allow you to configure
                * Rocker can change version 
                * Matlab can change version
* [Exporting & Publishing Git integrated repostories](https://github.com/whole-tale/gwvolman/issues/100) [name=Tommy]
    * Publish/export as-is?
        * Should still be a valid git repository
    * _could_ include RDF to talk about the repo in th manifest
        * Standard RDF algorithm
            * Find X standard for representing a git repo
            * Vetting process
            * Try to impliment it 
    * Q. When I hit publish, what am I publishing?
        * .git and all
        * Or just current commit  

Updates
-------

* Tommy
    * SDTL-ProvONE enhancement discussions
    * Fixed up the PR for updating DataONE Tales
        * Attached a second PR for unit tests
    * Feel-good-PR  for Tale description
        * Note that the Dashboard already sets a default (may want to unify defaults)
    * TODO: Test publishing PR with Mike L's publishing Dashboard PR related to the publishing modal

* Kacper
    * Merged virt resources
    * Prepped versioning deployment for testing and review.

* Tim
    * Blazegraph does reason about types when loading data.
    * However, due to the open world nature of RDF, when Blazegraph notes conflicts between types of subjects and objects on the one hand, and declared domains and ranges for predicates on the other, Blazegraph simply implies more types for the subjects and objects.
    * Will need to look into Shapes Constraint Language (SHACL) https://www.w3.org/TR/shacl/
    * Working on a grant proposal.

* Mike L
    * No new updates
    * Are Git integration / versioning API ready to start looking at?
        * Versioning API: https://github.com/whole-tale/wt_versioning#the-api

* Mike H
    * Working on possible GirderFS optimizations, including caching.

* Craig
    * SDTL "kitchen sink" extractor POC
    * Matlab buildpack 
    * XSEDE XRAS 
