2020-06-01: Development Meeting
===============================

Craig, Kacper, Tim, Mike L, Mike H

Agenda
------

* Updates
* Versioning
    * How to handle metadata?
    * How to handle versions during export?
        * MH: Allow to export just the latest, export a specific one
    * How to get a diff between two versions?
        * MH: 

Updates
-------

* Craig:
    * Met with MathWorks folks, we can use MATLAB with a few administrative steps (official permission, terms of use)
    * Started reviewing versioning implementation
        * A few issues/observations (will file) 
            * Cannot version tale created prior to plugin being enabled
            * Cannot version tale without external data (Kacper reported)
            * Bug when loading session data (Kacper fixed)
            * If version creation fails, old version is not cleaned up
            * Version isn't deleted when tale is 
            * Versioning should also operate on tale metadata, right?
        * Questions
            * Will versions be included in exported tale?
                * MH: suggested that we have the option to export
            * How do I diff versions (including metadata etc)?

* Tim
    * JSON-LD and SPARQL 1.1 still looking good for provenance serialiation and query.
    * Working on a template-based approach to creating reports and visualizations.

* Mike L
    * Fixed conflicts/bug in AiWT PR
        * Filed / linked a few open issues to this
    * Spent more of last week fixing/cleaning dev VM than I had expected
        * Bug in `deploy-dev` required unmerged PR
    * Tagged some issues with `question` that likely require further discussion
    
* Mike H

* Tommy
    * Out today
    * Fixed up the code from the linked issue from last week (need a code review form a DataONE person)
    * Re-enabled Analyze in WT feature on D1 dev sites

* Kacper
    * Reviews and fixing random bugs in deploy-dev
