2020-09-28: Development Meeting
===============================

Kacper, Tommy, Mike H, Mike L, Tim, Craig

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Discussion on provenance storage -- [name=Tommy]


Updates
-------

* Kacper 
    * Released and deployed in production:
        * v0.9.2 r2d_wholetale: [Allow to configure Rocker base image and RStudio download url.](https://github.com/whole-tale/repo2docker_wholetale/pull/13)
        * v0.9.2 gwvolman: [Allow to specify r2d version via config on Image or Tale](https://github.com/whole-tale/gwvolman/pull/112) 

* Tommy
    * More recorded run docs, mostly finished [this](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GN4LtEDJrq5EiMKHAAkAy-n1geCHG-veS3eCUKlXDr4) document
        * Would like to discuss after the Updates
        * Would also like to circle the wagons on it on Friday

* Mike L
    * Closing on my new house this week :tada: :confetti_ball: 
    * Just got `deploy-dev` set back up with `virtual_resources` branches
        * NOTE: Something in master (`wt_home_dirs` / `girder_wholetale`) is no longer compatible, this forced an upgrade
    * 

* Mike H

* Tim
    * Blazegraph can be configured to infer the closure of implied triples  based on RDFS (e.g. rdfs:subClassOf) or (simple) OWL (e.g. owl:sameAs, owl:inverseOf) triples (Blazegraph iterates until fixed point is reached).
    * This is done (mostly) when the data is loaded into Blazegraph, rather than at query time (there is no full-blown, i.e. mega-slow, reasoner at query time), so triplestore will be big, but queries will be fast.  
    * Nice because we can define our own nice, easy to query vocabulary and let others query it (with greater complexity) using PROV or ProvONE vocabularies.
    * Currently defining a "Comprehensive Provenance Record" vocabulary (prefix 'cpr') that declares subclass, synonym, and inverseof relationships to PROV and ProvONE. Provenance captured from ReproZip will be inserted as cpr triples.
    * Whole Tale (prefix 'wt') and SKOPE can derive any additional terms required from cpr.  Queries phrased in terms of  wt, cpr, provone, or prov vocabularies will then work. 
    * In theory, exporting ProvONE triples (or even just vanilla PROV triples) will be very easy.  They will already be in the triplestore and can be pulled with a simple CONSTRUCT query.


* Craig
    * Deployed v0.9.1 with new infrastructure (TACC, Ubuntu, more storage, Docker volumes)
    * PR review
    * Quarterly reports
    * This week: 
        * Need to get back to C2metadata
        * XSEDE XRAC
