2020-12-21: Development Meeting
===============================

Kacper, Tommy, Mike H, Craig, Tim

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Image versions [name=Craig]
    * New Matlab IDE will only work with version >=R2020b
    * Jupyter Kernel/Xpra required for < R2020b
* Next meeting: 01/11/21

Updates
------

* Kacper
    * PR reviews
    * [Fixed mran handling in r2d_wt buildpacks](https://github.com/whole-tale/repo2docker_wholetale/pull/16)
    * [Minor UI "improvement"](https://github.com/whole-tale/ngx-dashboard/pull/114)

* Craig
    * Fixed r2d PR w.r.t. tests
    * PR reviews
    * Matlab redux

* Tommy
    * Misc PR reviews
    * Refactored SDTL/RDF stuff to address feedback from SDTL Team & Tim
    * Focusing some time on getting the current release out (PR review + docs + testing effors)
        * Would like to start work on some reproducible run stuff soon (SDTL pipleline depends on it and I only have ~2 months left)

* Tim
    * Order of SDTL elements do matter!  Thanks, Tommy.
    * Fortunately, SPARQL queries still can be made to work.
    * Unfortunately, it looks like sequence is insufficient to resolve variable dependencies.  Hope I'm wrong.
    * Will need to make a table of general SDTL program structures that can be expected and the type capabilities/limitations on querying for each.
    * https://github.com/ThomasThelen/sdtl-rdf-examples/blob/master/examples/03-compute_save_compute/script.py
    * From Craig:
        * https://gitlab.com/craig-willis/c2metadata-bd/-/tree/master/examples

* Mike H

* Mike L
    * Updated Tale Versions PR to work with newest versioning API changes
    * Noting Craig/Tommy's feedback about the "name exists" validation behavior - not sure how easy it will be to intercept the modal before it submits or reopening it on failure. This may be a shortcoming in Angular/Google's MatDialog.
