2020-11-23: Development Meeting
===============================

Tommy, Craig, Kacper, Mike H, Tim, Mike L

Agenda
------

* Updates
* Big SDTL-ProvONE model change proposal -- [name=Tommy]
    * Is the project about a ProvONE representation of SDTL? Or a hybrid model of both? (Mostly rhetorical. I'll ask Matt J)
        * One of those approaches involves writing software that converts SDTL to RDF in accordance to the 4,000 line owl file.
    * Proposing that the ProvONE model has _minimal_ sdtl
        * No extra objects like [this](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/sdtl-converter/blob/master/tests/scripts/compute_2/RDF.ttl#L55) or [this](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/sdtl-converter/blob/master/tests/scripts/compute_2/RDF.ttl#L406) or [this](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/sdtl-converter/blob/master/tests/scripts/compute_2/RDF.ttl#L449)
        * Stop trying to turn [this](https://github.com/ThomasThelen/sdtl-converter/blob/master/tests/scripts/compute_2/compute.json#L268) into RDF
        * Embed data frame information in ports (original plan) which is the only SDTL included
* Sharing - what to expect when two users edit the same tale -- [name=Craig]
    * Tale
        * Editing keywords/description, etc
            * Won't refresh in UI at all
        * We don't expect two users to be editing the WT UI elements at the same time.
    * My experience w/ workspace:
        * long lag between edits: 10 second webdav 
        * File created by user2 never appears for user1
        * User2 cannot edit or remove file created by user1
    * Should we lock it?
        * Tim: Lock/Unlock request?
        * KK: Analogy of project space in HPC cluster
        * CW: What are we saying: We allow simultaneous editing (ala HPC/shared system)?
        * KK: This is an edge case. 
            * The more interesting is read-only with private work. Running classes.
            * /etc/davfs2/davfs2.conf

Updates
-------

* Tommy
    * Uploading the results of BD+C2Metadata to DataONE
        * Next Steps
            * Bring in ProvONE/SDTL Converter
            * Insert RDF into Resource Map
    * SDTL model meeting in probably 2 weeks (take 20)
        * I'm happy with the way I'm modeling ProvONE stuff, really have no idea about SDTL
        * Will also be updating the provone-sdtl documentation so that it reflects the current model
        * Also going to propose a big change

* Craig
    * MATLAB demo video for Mathworks folks
    * Requested annual licenses from Stata
    * PR review and testing

* Kacper
    * PR review and testing

* Mike H
    * PRs updating versioning addressing reported issues

* Tim
    * Outline for talk on ProvONE at workshop next week:

        * Title:  ProvONE – A Conceptual Model and Vocabulary for Prospective Provenance
            * Overview – Provide a context for understanding ProvONE
            * Role of provenance in scientific research
            * History of provenance models and standards
            * Origin of ProvONE
            * Understanding its capabilities and limitations
            * Where we go from here
        * How scientists think about provenance:  it’s not meta
            * ChIP-chip workflow diagram – made by genomics researcher
            * Note two kinds of boxes—programs and data
            * Data flow is the natural model of provenance for these researchers
            * The answer to the question “how was this result obtained” is answered by a dataflow graph culminating in the result
            * More specific questions about the provenance of results are queries on this dataflow graph.
        * Scientific workflow system – automating what researchers already do
        * Scientific workflow systems and models of computation.
        * The process network model of computation (Kepler/Ptolemy-II terminology)
            * Workflows, Actors, Ports, Channels, Sub-workflows
        * Early models of scientific provenance – RWS and COMAD
        * The PROV model – retrospective provenance
        * The ProvONE model – prospective provenance
        * Dude, where’s my data?
        * YesWorkflow – Prospective provenance for scripts
        * YesWorkflow – Reconstructing retrospective provenance
        * Queries – automating what researchers already do
        * Building on PROV and ProvONE
        * Towards comprehensible provenance

* Mike L
    * Added a "Shared with Me" tab to [tale-sharing PR](https://github.com/whole-tale/ngx-dashboard/pull/16)
    * Address PR review comments and review open PRs
