2021-08-23: Development Meeting
===============================
Kacper, Craig, Tim, Mike H, Mike L

Agenda
------
* Updates
* BDBag Import PR closure -- [name=Craig]
    * CW: Only issue I have is that the whole bag is exposed instead of just payload.
    * What would we suggest?
        * More info in metadata.json --
            * Contributors, dataset identifier, something to create a citation.
* Recorded Run PRs closure?
    * KK: most of them are approved by 2 reviewers
* TODO wrt VW (Verification Workflow) supplement:
    * What is it?
        * Collaboration with Cornell/LDI (AEA) and Odum 
        * Starts now (~Sept) through end of award period (Feb 2022) with possible extension
        * Phase 1: Verifiers at Odum and Cornell/LDI will use/evaluated the WT system with author submissions (~30 each). We will prioritize and address identified issues.
        * Phase 2: WT will work with developer at Odum to integrate WT with CORE2 verification workflow system
    * What do we anticipate doing?
        * Training + support of verifiers
        * Fix/prioritize identified issues
        * Improved Dataverse integration
        * More environments/versions
        * Environments from combinations of languages
        * UI improvements for customizing environment
    * Separate deployment?
        * More performant allocation on Radiant?
            * Flash storage ... 

Updates
-------
* Kacper
    * just got back to work!

* Craig
    * Out most of last week
        * Will also be out most (if not all) of week of Sept 27
    * C2Metadata/BD demo prep
        * Converter working again via https://browndog.ncsa.illinois.edu/bdfiddle/
    * DERIVA demo prep
        * Deployed https://dashboard.test.wholetale.org
    * VW Supplement planning

* Tim
    * Now have a "REPRO" with a SKOPE data processing workflow and CPR baked in
        * Currently a Jupyter notebook that gets converted to html.

* Mike L
    * Last week: PR to show rendered Tale metadata
        * See https://github.com/whole-tale/ngx-dashboard/pull/218
    * Last week: PR to update Interact tab when Tale finishes Running
        * See https://github.com/whole-tale/ngx-dashboard/pull/217
    * Reviewed BDBag import PR - looks good, I think?
    * Informal presentation tomorrow
        * Presenting WT system to SD3 (my small group)
    * Need to create/generate a RunService in `src/app/api/services`

* Mike H
