2021-03-01: Development Meeting
===============================

Kacper, Craig, Mike L, Mike H, Tim, Tommy

Agenda
------
* Updates
* Other people's time? [name=Tommy]
    * Mine's out, what's everyone looking like?
    * If we're doing the RR I can keep chipping away at these smaller nceas deliverables

Updates
-------

* Kacper
    * Working with Tommy on utilizing versions in export/publish
        * [Decouple Tale exporting from girder models](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/451)
            * Up till now we were using live girder objects (Tale, Manifest, Image...) to generate a bag.
            * With this PR exporting fully adopts serialization format (manifest.json) and works with just a reference to a folder with workspace data.
        * [Create a new version when publishing and exporting](https://github.com/whole-tale/wt_versioning/pull/21)
            * Using events, we enforce creation of Version whenever `GET /tale/:id/export` and `PUT /tale/:id/publish` are called and use it if `versionId` was not provided.

* Tommy
    * Limping a few PRs in
        * Rebasing off of Kacper's manifest refactor
    * Played around with publishing prov to DataONE
        * Worked pretty well, can be a little refined
            * "Give me a provenance JSON file in workspace/provenance/prov_run.json and I'll include it in the DataONE resource map"
        * Pretty sure DataONE shows prospective prov, we're generating retrospective through geist
        * http://jenkins-1.dataone.org/jenkins/view/Documentation%20Projects/job/ProvONE-Documentation-trunk/ws/provenance/ProvONE/v1/provone.html

* Craig
    * Finalized [notifications PR](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/445)
        * Limiting to subset of events
        * Will issue separate PR for things already handled by UI (polling)
    * PresQT ... continued
        * Testing some updates to their API
        * Will report during 3/16 PresQT project meeting

* Tim
    * Added a `status` subcommand with -timeout option to blazegraph CLI.
        * Returns 0 if successfully connects to Blazegraph, 1 otherwise.
        * Retries throughout the timeout period.
        * WIll try with Dockerfile HEALTHCHECK

* Mike H
    * Spoke with Deriva folks.
        * Current plan is to add support for registering data from BDBags created by Deriva

* Mike L
    * First-pass at updating UI state via SSE notifications [WIP PR](https://github.com/whole-tale/ngx-dashboard/pull/139)
        * Only covering `wt_tale_updated` event atm while exploring the pattern - can expand to cover other events later
        * I needed to disable some BrowserCaching module to make this work, tho I'm still not sure why
    * Reviewed/discussed "Restore Version" PRs
        * Needs one last pass for testing
