2021-10-18 Development Meeting
===============================
Kacper, Mike H, Mike L, Tim

Agenda
------
* Updates

Updates
-------
* Kacper
    * Deal with Instances upon Tale delete/unshare - [whole-tale/girder_wholetale#506](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/506)
    * RunsFS fixes:
        * [RunsFS] Handle root listing properly. Fixes #28 - [whole-tale/girdersfs#28](https://github.com/whole-tale/girderfs/pull/29)
        * Update Tale object whenever run/version changes - [whole-tale/wt_versioning#34](https://github.com/whole-tale/wt_versioning/pull/34)
    * AccessType.NONE is not a valid level. Use 'None' instead - [whole-tale/girder_wholetale#508](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_wholetale/pull/508)

* Mike H

* Mike L
    * Starting to address PR feedback on Recorded Runs
        * "Runs" missing from timeline on Tale History panel
        * Back button yields an innocuous error in the console
        * User creating runs back-to-back won't create a new version - handle HTTP 303 See Other
        * User should not be able to delete versions that have runs - need to handle HTTP 461 error
            * Side note: What is 461? This response code does not appear to be standardized

* Tim
    * Are absolute file paths likely to fit within 200 characters?
        * String lengths limited to 64 bytes by default in bpftrace.
        * Can be raised to 200 through environment variable setting.
        * Internally the BPF stack size 512 bytes which is easy to exceed when strings are longer (detected by static analyis, it seems).
        * Would have to use C and bypass bpftrace to manage strings differently.
    * There are indeed open() failure to filter out during nbconvert execution.

* Craig
    * PR Review/testing mainly around recoded runs
    * Proposed alternative to run configuration
