2022-07-18 Development Meeting
==============================
Kacper, Craig, Sara, Tim

Agenda
------
* Updates
* JS2 migration -- [name=Craig]
    * Need to delete resources on JS1 by end of July
    * I will delete lingering prod/stage resources by end of week
        * If you feel emotionally attached I can pull the plug :) -- Kacper 
* Public registry -- [name=Craig]
    * Requirements
        * Authenticated pushes -- only by WT
        * Unauthenticated pulls
        * Needs to work with both export and publish?
            * What about private tales? CodeOcean forces user to build locally
        * Garbage collection
            * Need to be able to clean up cache without deleting tales associated with published images
            * Add metadata to Girder
        * Commitment to store for long term? (end of grant?)
    * Options:
        * Push to Dockerhub
            * Maybe in violation of OpenSource terms of use
        * Use current registry
            * RO + RW instances seems to work well
        * Deploy new registry
            * Quay may be the way to go
                * SL: Rob uses Harbor
                    * Could maybe use NCSA Harbor?
    * Tim:
        * Supporting multiple registries?
            * CW: At the level of the user, requires auth. At the level of WT, is bound to a URL (e.g., images.wholetale.org)
                * Push it where you want to push it
        * What about signing images?
            * KK: https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/trust/
            * CW:
                * https://github.com/sigstore/cosign
                * https://docs.projectquay.io/use_quay.html
    * Kacper:
        * Zenodo as backend for Docker Registry
    * Sara:
        * Use expiresAt on Mongo/expiration of images
        * KK: Docker gives this information by design
            * We don't want to delete images that have been published, regardless of how old
    * CW: Where are the archival registries?
        * SDSC? Cern? TACC
        * BioContainers is storing on Quay
    * Tim:
        * Any recorded run should have the associated image
        * System should weakly promise that it will be around

Updates
-------
* Kacper
    * PR reviews.
    * On vacation next week too!

* Craig
    * On vacation next week
    * JS2 deployment done
        * Prod and staging are running on JS2
        * Fixed backup, for now
    * Public registry
        * Simple proof of concept using two registry instances works

* Tim
    * Putting finishing touches on a lightweight logging framework for shell.
        * Provides visibility and testability (ensuring repeatability)
            * Of the provenance framework
            * Of the many REPRO modules that comprise the provenance framework
            * Of individual examples and demonstrations of the provenance framework.
        * Introducing a new dimension of the provenance model itself  

* Sara
